Now that you've uploaded HTML files to IPFS,
why not upload a full-blown website that you can share with others.
The goal in this video is to help you get up and running with a template to
show you how you can use IPFS as a free web hosting service.
To do that, we'll download a Bootstrap template
then add a few personal changes before publishing it.
To get started, I'm going to go download a template from Start Bootstrap.com.
If you're familiar with building websites,
feel free to use whichever files you would like.
I'm just doing this to show you a super quick way to
get a website started with a decent amount of functionality.
So first, navigate to Start Bootstrap.com
and choose whatever template you like. I'll choose this one.
I'll download it, add it to my desktop and unzip the file.
Next, go back to the terminal,
change into the websites directory and open it in your code editor.
We can navigate to the ReadMe to see instructions on how to get this up and running.
Depending on which template you picked,
your instructions may be different.
But for me, I need to run a few commands.
First, I'll run npm install to install all of the dependencies.
Next, since there were some warnings,
I'll run npm audit fix to help address them.
Finally, I'll run gulp dev to run this site on my local host.
This is just to give me a chance to see it locally before I go and upload it to IPFS.
Before publishing it, I'd like to customize a few things.
For one, since this is my personal website,
I should at least have my name on it.
For that, I'll go into the HTML file and update the title to say my name.
You can update the images HTML,
CSS or JavaScript to turn this into whatever site you'd like.
Back at the terminal, a back out of this folder using cd
dot dot to add the entire directory to IPFS.
Before doing this, I quickly wanted to mention that I'm trying to get this up quickly but
it's really not the best practice to put your entire website onto the hosting platform.
Normally, what you're going to want do is put all of your assets that actually
need to be hosted into a single folder and then publish that folder.
So, I just wanted to mention for now,
I'm doing this the wrong way but it so we can just get it up and running quickly.
Okay. So let's do it.
Type ipfs add -r my homepage.
This will upload every file for the website to IPFS and allow you to see it there.
The last hash you'll see should be the directory for the site.
After adding this the IPFS,
we can publish the directory using IPFS name like we did with the HTML file.
So the last thing we need to do is type ipfs name publish,
followed by the hash of the directory.
This will publish our website.
While this is publishing, there's one last thing I wanted to go over.
Right now, these URLs are pretty ugly.
This long hash value is impossible for anyone to remember.
What if you already have your own website and you want to use that URL?
Well, that's possible.
Since you have your static URL from IPNS,
all you need to do is update the existing URL to point to this IPNS name.
If you ever bought a domain name through providers like Namecheap or GoDaddy,
you can easily change the records to use your existing URL.
Another option would be to just use a URL shortener like Bitly.
So, by putting the hash value I got into the gateway for IPFS,
I can see the new website I just published.
And here it is. Title here is
John and I'm ready to get moving and turn this into my own personal profile.
So, that's it for getting your own personal website published to IPFS.
Congratulations if you made it this far.
I hope you're able to get your website up and running.
This site could be a great way to show projects you've worked on as
a blockchain developer while even having the site itself be on a decentralized network.
To me, that's pretty exciting.
I hope you've enjoyed getting this site up for yourself.